Release 12.4.0 (#4997)
cypress-io/cypress-documentation: docs/guides/references/_changelogs/12.4.0.md

## 12.4.0

_Released 1/24/2023_

> **Features:**

Reviewer: Could consider doing a little bit of sorting here, pull the most impactful features to the top. Nothing super scientific, but the two feature flags (especially the memory related one!) and `.as()` options are probably more important than linebreaks in log messages.

Author: reordered in 4ba7d032b

- The `cy.log()`command will now display a line break where the `\n` character
  is used. Addressed in
  [#25467](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/pull/25467).
- `.jsx`/`.tsx` file extensions will be utilized when generating a new empty
  spec file inside component testing if the project contains at least one file
  with those extensions. Addressed in
  [#25318](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/pull/25318).
- Added new `experimentalSkipDomainInjection` flag to disable Cypress from
  setting `document.domain` on injection. Addressed in
  [#25307](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/pull/25307).

> - Added new `experimentalMemoryManagement` flag to improve memory management in

Reviewer 2: link to experiment. Also need likely need to add a link to a Github discussion around this...Lets check with the team.

Author: addressed in 4ba7d032b. Do we usually include a github discussion in the changelog?

  Chromium-based browsers. Addressed in
  [#25462](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/pull/25462).

> - Video output link in `cypress run` mode has been added to it's own line to

Reviewer 2: I'd list this as misc and say this was for readability because we can't guarantee this will be clickable in all terminals.

Author: moved to `Misc` in 4ba7d032b

  make the video output link more easily clickable in the terminal. Addressed in
  [#23915](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/pull/23915).
- Support `data-qa` selector in Selector Playground in addition to `data-cy`,
  `data-test` and `data-testid`. Addressed in
  [#25475](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/pull/25475).

> - `.as()` now accepts an options argument, allowing test writers to store an

Reviewer 2: add relative link to `.as()` command

Author: added in 4ba7d032b

>   - `.as()` now accepts an options argument, allowing test writers to store an

Author: need to fix the formatting here

> - `.as()` now accepts an options argument, allowing test writers to store an
>   alias as a "query" or "static". Addressed in

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `.as()` now accepts an options argument, allowing an alias to be stored as
  a "query" or "static" value. Addressed in
```

Author: added in 4ba7d032b

    [#25251](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/pull/25251).

**Bugfixes:**

> - Fixes an issue where component tests could incorrectly treat new major

Reviewer 2: This should read as past-tense
```suggestion
- Fixed an issue where component tests could incorrectly treat new major
```
We should also list which versions this was incorrectly reporting as supported instead of saying `certain dependencies`.

Reviewer 4: The fix was for future-proofing the supported deps. As it stands, there are no versions currently released that we are saying we don't support (for example we said we supported Angular >=13, it's now been fixed to 13,14,15 and v16 is not released yet)

Author: past-tense added for Bugfixes in 4ba7d032b

  versions of certain dependencies as supported. Addressed in
  [#25380](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/pull/25380).
- Fixes an issue where spaces on new lines weren't kept in the test runner.
  Addressed in [#24687](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/pull/24687).
- Fixes an issue where Angular component testing projects would fail to
  initialize if an unsupported browserslist entry was specified in the project

>   configuration. Addressed in

Reviewer 2: Anytime a pull request closes an issue, it should be referenced instead of the pull request. So for this issue, it should be,
`Fixed [25312](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/issues/25312).

Author: Is this for fixes only or features and others as well?

Author: Sorry I just saw your comment on https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress-documentation/blob/main/docs/guides/references/changelog.mdx. Going through now and updating those!

Author: This should be fixed in f4a552eda

  [#25500](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/pull/25500).

**Misc**

> - Documentation for `createOutputSpy` inside Angular component testing has been

Reviewer 2: We don't include doc updates in the changelog, we can drop this entry.

Author: I thought we talked about this with @ZachJW34 this morning and felt it was appropriate to include here in the changelog at least. Do we no longer wish to do that?

Reviewer 4: Sorry for the confusion, I was referencing this: https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/pull/25500 which you have referenced above. If it was a fix for `cypress/angular` then yes it should be referenced here but this one is just a jsdoc update so no need to.

  corrected to reference the property inside `componentProperties`. Addressed in
  [#25359](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/pull/25359)

> - Vite 4+ will no longer show a warning when used for component testing

Reviewer 2: This sounds like a feature for adding official support for vite 4.

Reviewer 4: Yes I would phrase it as `Official support for Vite 4 projects for component testing`. I would drop the `+` as we don't support anything past v4.

## 12.4.0

_Released 1/24/2023_

**Features:**

- Added new
  [`experimentalSkipDomainInjection`](/guides/references/experiments#Experimental-Skip-Domain-Injection)

>   flag to disable Cypress from setting `document.domain` on injection. Addresses

Reviewer 2: We should expand on what issue experiment is addressing? Also this is an e2e only config right?

Author: It is only an e2e config. I can add some details

Author: added more details and defined as e2e only in 2a4b1b2fa

  [#2367](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/issues/2367),
  [#23958](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/issues/23958),
  [#24290](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/issues/24290), and
  [#24418](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/issues/24418).
- Added new
  [`experimentalMemoryManagement`](/guides/references/experiments#Configuration)

>   flag to improve memory management in Chromium-based browsers. Addresses

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
configuration option to improve memory management in Chromium-based browsers. Enable this option with `experimentalMemoryManagement=true` if you have experienced "Out of Memory" issues. Addresses
```

  [#23391](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/issues/23391).

> - [`.as`](/api/commands/as) now accepts an options argument, allowing an alias

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The [`.as`](/api/commands/as) command now accepts an options argument, allowing an alias
```

>   to be stored as a "query" or "static" value. Addresses

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  to be stored as type "query" or "static" value. This is stored as "query" by default. Addresses
```

> - The [`.as`](/api/commands/as) command now accepts an options argument, allowing an alias

Reviewer 5: Where is the documentation for this? This should be updated on the 'as' api docs.

Author: It was merged into `main` this morning I believe https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress-documentation/commit/59cc496692e10cfa9bd64b70017d342147793b71

Reviewer: Aye, whoops, this is my mistake - it went directly into `main` and not `12.4.0`.

  [#25173](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/issues/25173).

> - Official support for Vite 4 projects for component testing. Addresses

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
- Added official support for Vite 4 projects for component testing. Addresses
```

Just to be consistent.

Reviewer 7: I actually think this should be top line of the changelog.  Ahead of experimental flags.

> - Added official support for Vite 4 projects for component testing. Addresses

Reviewer 2: I'd list Vite support first, followed by the memory experiment.

Author: reordered in 2a4b1b2fa. How does that look?

  [#24969](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/issues/24969).
- The `cy.log()` command will now display a line break where the `\n` character
  is used. Addresses
  [#24964](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/issues/24964).

> - `.jsx`/`.tsx` file extensions will be utilized when generating a new empty

Reviewer 2: I'm not totally sure what this means, looks like I had parsed it as:
```md
- Utilize a JSX/TSX file extension when generating a new empty spec file if project contains at least one file with those extensions. This applies only to component testing and is skipped if [`component.specPattern`](/api/commands/session) has been configured to exclude files with those extensions. Addresses [#24495](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/issues/24495).
```

Author: I was going for something like that but I think this reads way better

Author: should be reworded in 2a4b1b2fa

  spec file inside component testing if the project contains at least one file
  with those extensions. Addresses
  [#24495](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/issues/24495).

> - Support `data-qa` selector in Selector Playground in addition to `data-cy`,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Added support for the `data-qa` selector in  the [Selector Playground](guides/core-concepts/cypress-app#Selector-Playground) in addition to `data-cy`,
```

  `data-test` and `data-testid`. Addresses
  [#25305](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/issues/25305).

**Bugfixes:**

- Fixed an issue where component tests could incorrectly treat new major
  versions of certain dependencies as supported. Fixes
  [#25379](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/issues/25379).

> - Fixed an issue where spaces on new lines weren't kept in the test runner.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Fixed an issue where spaces on new lines in the Command Log were not maintained.
```

Reviewer 2: Honestly this entry & [#24964](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/issues/24964). sound almost identical. could we swizzle about honoring command long formatting and reference both?

Author: addressed in 2a4b1b2fa

## 12.4.0

_Released 1/24/2023_

**Features:**

> - Added official support for Vite 4 projects for component testing. Addresses

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Added official support for Vite 4 in component testing. Addresses
```

@ZachJW34 Do we have vite documenation in the docs? Not finding it here https://docs.cypress.io/guides/core-concepts/cypress-app#Selector-Playground

Reviewer 2: or is this vite-dev-server?

Author: addressed in 762c22139

  [#24969](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/issues/24969).
- Added new
  [`experimentalMemoryManagement`](/guides/references/experiments#Configuration)
  configuration option to improve memory management in Chromium-based browsers.
  Enable this option with `experimentalMemoryManagement=true` if you have
  experienced "Out of Memory" issues. Addresses
  [#23391](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/issues/23391).
- Added new
  [`experimentalSkipDomainInjection`](/guides/references/experiments#Experimental-Skip-Domain-Injection)

>   flag to disable Cypress from setting `document.domain` on injection, allowing

Reviewer 2: flags to be are CLI options.
```suggestion
  configuration option to disable Cypress from setting `document.domain` on injection, allowing
```

Author: makes sense. Addressed in 762c22139

  users to test Salesforce domains. If you believe you are having
  `document.domain` issues, please see the
  [`experimentalSkipDomainInjection`](/guides/references/experiments#Experimental-Skip-Domain-Injection)

>   flag to enable for your domain. This config option is end-to-end only.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  guide. This config option is end-to-end only.
```

Author: addressed in 762c22139

  Addresses [#2367](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/issues/2367),
  [#23958](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/issues/23958),
  [#24290](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/issues/24290), and
  [#24418](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/issues/24418).
- The [`.as`](/api/commands/as) command now accepts an options argument,
  allowing an alias to be stored as type "query" or "static" value. This is
  stored as "query" by default. Addresses
  [#25173](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/issues/25173).

> - The `cy.log()` command will now display a line break where the `\n` character
>   is used. Addresses
>   [#24964](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/issues/24964).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: removed and consolidated in 762c22139

- [`component.specPattern`](/guides/references/configuration#component) now
  utilizes a JSX/TSX file extension when generating a new empty spec file if
  project contains at least one file with those extensions. This applies only to
  component testing and is skipped if
  [`component.specPattern`](/guides/references/configuration#component) has been
  configured to exclude files with those extensions. Addresses
  [#24495](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/issues/24495)

>   [#24495](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/issues/24495).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: whoops 😅 . addressed in 762c22139

- Added support for the `data-qa` selector in the
  [Selector Playground](guides/core-concepts/cypress-app#Selector-Playground) in
  addition to `data-cy`, `data-test` and `data-testid`. Addresses
  [#25305](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/issues/25305).

**Bugfixes:**

- Fixed an issue where component tests could incorrectly treat new major
  versions of certain dependencies as supported. Fixes
  [#25379](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/issues/25379).

> - Fixed an issue where spaces on new lines in the Command Log were not

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Fixed an issue where new lines or spaces on new lines in the Command Log were not
```

Author: addressed in 762c22139

  maintained. Fixes

>   [#23679](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/issues/23679).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  [#24964](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/issues/24964) and [#23679](https://github.com/cypress-io/cypress/issues/23679).
```
